My I.Q. is one of the highest - and you all know it!
I will be the best by far in fighting terror
I will be the greatest job-producing president in American history
I am the BEST builder, just look at what I've built
I am the best builder but if that were my building with the crane mishap...
I am attracting the biggest crowds, by far, and the best poll numbers, also by far.
I am least racist person there is
I am in Las Vegas, at the best hotel (by far), Trump International
I am at Trump National Doral-best resort in U.S.
Donald Trump's Palm Beach mansion...which I turned into the greatest club in the world
Many people have commented that my fragrance, “Success” is the best scent & lasts the longest
Many people have said I’m the world’s greatest writer of 140 character sentences.
Many are saying I'm the best 140 character writer in the world
I have proven to be far more correct about terrorism than anybody- and it’s not even close.
I have been able to spend far less money than others on the campaign and finish #1
I have raised/given a tremendous amount of money to our great VETERANS
I have millions more votes/hundreds more dels than Cruz or Kasich
I have brought millions of people into the Republican Party
I have built so many great & complicated projects– creating tens of thousands of jobs
I have spent almost nothing on my run for president and am in 1st place
I have a 33% to 20% lead over Ted Cruz and all others. Think about it!
I have just exceeded 2 million followers--and in such a short time!
I have over seven million hits on social media re Crooked Hillary Clinton
I have been drawing very big and enthusiastic crowds
Obama has no idea what he is doing - incompetent!
Obama has a horrible attitude - a man who is resigned to defeat
Obama has absolutely no control (or respect) over the African American community
Obama has done such a poor job as president, you won't see another black president for generations!
Obama has made one mistake after another for a very long time
Obama has no understanding of how to create jobs or opportunity
Obama has allowed America to be abused and kicked around
Obama has no problem lying to the American public
Obama has been horrible for Christians
Obama has been a total disaster
Obama is a terrible executive
Obama is a TERRIBLE PRESIDENT!
Obama is truly a pathetic excuse of a president, can't get any worse
Obama is looking like an incompetent fool
Obama is a delusional failure
Obama is so inelegant and unpresidential
Obama is so stupid
Obama is so overwhelmed by what is happening in the U.S. and throughout the World
Obama is not a natural deal maker. Only makes bad deals!
Obama is A TOTAL incompetent!
Obama is perhaps the worst president in U.S. history!
Obama is perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States!
Obama is living in a world of the make believe!
Obama is not a natural leader, was never ment (sic) to lead
Obama is just so bad!
Obama is an absolutely terrible president, maybe the worst in our history!
Obama is without question, the WORST EVER president
Obama is losing on so many fronts, in fact all fronts
Obama is giving Social Security & ObamaCare to illegals
Obama is giving a pathway to terrorists to enter our country. An attack is on him.
Obama is a TOTAL DISASTER FOR ISRAEL-AND ALWAYS WILL BE
Obama is the weakest POTUS against China
Obama is so fawning and desperate
Obama is not a leader, he's just a campaigner
Obama is the most overrated politician in US history
Obama is a racist
Obama is not who you think
Obama wants to change the name of the White House because it is highly discriminating
Obama wants to deny due process to the police. He’ll give all constitutional rights to the terrorists but not our cops
Obama was so pathetic in the first debate
Obama was never made or prepared for the job. Like it or not, he doesn't have it
Obama was able to fool the Americans by getting elected
Obama doesn't have a clue...our country is a divided crime scene
Obama doesn't know what he is doing
Obama loves wasting our money
Obama is not capable of doing the job
Obama should be ashamed!
Obama you are a complete and total disaster
Obama what the hell is wrong with you?
It's almost like he's saying F-you to U.S. public
I predict he will now do something really bad and totally stupid to show manhood!
I am concerned he will do something totally irrational
Who thinks that President Obama is totally incompetent?
What the hell is wrong with this guy?
Is he stubborn or just plain incompetent
Is he stupid or arrogant?
Can you be that thick (stupid)?
How much can one man lie about even the most obvious things?
How totally stupid is this guy?
How the hell did he get into Columbia & Harvard?
Is he delusional?
Everything he touches turns to garbage
Everything he touches turns into a mess. Some people just don't have it
Obama our Welfare & Food Stamp President...He doesn't believe in work.